LEARN CSS COLORS BY BUILDING A SET OF COLORED MARKERS


in css we use marign to keep a class type in center or lefe of right where ever you want we can use 'margin-top or margin-bottom' for the alignment but we can only use 'margin' to auto to place the place in center.
When a shorthand 'margin' property has two values, it sets 'margin-top and margin-bottom' to the first value, and 'margin-left and margin-right' to the second value.


There are to model used for coloring one is RGB(red,green,blue) another is CMKY(cyan, magenta, yellow, Key(black)) RGB use in electronic devices and CMKY used in print.

Here we will work with the RGB model which stat with and Black and changes different values of red, green and blue to introdced.

Function is a piece of code that take inpurt and performs a specific action.

we use rgb(_,_,_) function to produce color by accepting values of red, green and blue.

Each red, green, and blue value is a number from 0 to 255. 0 means that there's 0% of that color, and is black. 255 means that there's 100% of that color.

Secondary colors(Cyan, Magenta, Yellow) are the colors you get when you combine primary colors.

Now that we are familiar with secondary colors, we will learn how to create tertiary colors. Tertiary colors are created by combining a primary with a nearby secondary color.

A color wheel is a circle where similar colors, or hues, are near each other, and different ones are further apart. For example, pure red is between the hues rose and orange.

Two colors that are opposite from each other on the color wheel are called complementary colors. If two complementary colors are combined, they produce gray. But when they are placed side-by-side, these colors produce strong visual contrast and appear brighter.

It's better practice to choose one color as the dominant color, and use its complementary color as an accent to bring attention to certain content on the page.

Use birght color/dark same color in footer and header to make the body/content attractive so first attention gpes to the middel body/content.

A very common way to apply color to an element with CSS is with hexadecimal or hex values. While hex values sound complicated, they're really just another form of RGB values.

Hex color values start with a # character and take six characters from 0-9 and A-F. The first pair of characters represent red, the second pair represent green, and the third pair represent blue. For example, #4B5320.

In decimal the values goes from 0to9 (0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9)
In hexadecimal the values are from 0-9 and A-F(0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, A, B, C, D, E, F)

The HSL color model, or hue, saturation, and lightness, is another way to represent colors.

The CSS hsl function accepts 3 values: a number from 0 to 360 for hue, a percentage from 0 to 100 for saturation, and a percentage from 0 to 100 for lightness.

If we imagine a color wheel, the hue red is at 0 degrees, green is at 120 degrees, and blue is at 240 degrees.

Saturation is the intensity of a color from 0%, or gray, to 100% for pure color.

Lightness is how bright a color appears, from 0%, or complete black, to 100%, complete white, with 50% being neutral.

A gradient is when one color transitions into another. The CSS 'linear-gradient' function lets you control the direction of the transition along a line, and which colors are used.

One thing to remember is that the 'linear-gradient' function actually creates an 'image' element, and is usually paired with the 'background' property which can accept an image as a value.